Something a bit different this time. My
top five UFO stories. The Battle of Los
Angeles, Trinity, Roswell, Tyrron, and
Rendlessham. So, let's have a look at
[Music]
them. The Battle of Los Angeles,
February
1942, just two months after the Japanese
attack on Pearl Harbor.
US radar stations picked up an
unidentified aerial object in the early
morning while the sky was still dark and
for several hours anti-aircraft battery
fire thousands of rounds into the sky.
search lights searched, tried to lock
onto these uh supposed objects, and the
LA Times reported the air over Los
Angeles erupted like a
volcano. Quite
incredible. Six deaths were reported,
three from heart attacks and three from
falling ordinance where the
anti-aircraft shells, well, they they go
up, the bits have to come down
somewhere.
One of the 12,000 air raid wardens
described the objects. He said, "A
lovely pale orange, about the most
beautiful thing you've ever seen." It's
very strange description, isn't it? And
eventually the secretary of the Navy,
Frank Knox, said the whole thing was a
false alarm and due to war nerves. So
presumably what happened here was
somebody got too excited, saw something
on the radar they didn't identify.
Somebody looked out of the window.
People then started firing flares and
then people started firing at the flares
and uh it just all snowballed from
there. Quite amazing.
1945 in Los
Alamos, a local rancher and his children
claimed they had seen an eggshaped
craft and possibly an avocadoshaped
craft. Well, you would if you were a
farmer, wouldn't you? Shape and on the
back of a trailer in the New Mexico
desert. And he claimed they'd seen
occupants inside this craft and that
authorities came away, loaded it up onto
this big trailer and took it away. So
what was really going on there? Well,
1945 Los Alamos was of course where the
Manhattan project was getting ready to
test the atomic bomb for the first time
at the Trinity site. And in the uh July
the 16th, the first bomb was detonated.
Uh picture of it exploding and of the
memorial there. But as part of the
project, an object called Jumbo had been
developed. And Jumbo was over 200 ton
steel container shaped like a giant egg
or avocado.
And the point of this was that the
scientists were very concerned that if
the bomb didn't work, this was the very
first test of an implosion type bomb.
And if the implosion went wrong, it
could scatter the plutonium all over the
desert. And plutonium was the most
expensive material in the world. So
their idea was to set the bomb off
inside jumbo.
And if uh the uh detonation failed, they
could hopefully recover the plutonium
from within
Jumbo. Well, in the end, they didn't use
Jumbo. They left it on its tower just
800 m from the Trinity test explosion.
And so powerful was the explosion that
it hurled this 200 ton steel container
quite some distance. But Jumbo pretty
much survived it. And had it been such
that they put the bomb inside it, that
would not have happened. The bomb
detonated fully and would have
completely vaporized Jumbo. But it did
lead to this report of this very
strange alien spacecraft being
transported by the authorities. But of
course it was a secret project so no one
was allowed to talk about jumbo at the
time. Also during World War II we had
foo fighters and foo fighters were
observed by allied pilots, fighter
pilots and bomber pilots in fact as
colorful balls of light following their
aircraft at high
speeds. We don't really know what these
were. Some people have explained them as
uh some sort of German secret weapon.
Others have said they were just uh lens
flare reflections off the perspects
canopies and so forth. Um perhaps of
search lights or flares. We don't really
know. And in
1946 there were reports of ghost
rockets. These uh thousands of UFO
reports all over Europe. probably again
due to government's testing in secret
recovered German vunderafa secret
weapons. But it really all got going in
1947 with the first flying saucers. And
there's a couple of uh inserts here of a
diagram of what the flying saucer might
have looked like and uh some news
reports there. supersonic flying saucers
cited by Idaho pilot. Well, what started
it was Ken Arnold was flying in his
private plane near Mount Raineier and he
saw something that he didn't understand.
He saw what he described as a group of
objects moving at high speed and
skipping like saucers on a pond. So this
was not describing the objects
themselves, but describing their motions
as the effect of skipping a saucer on a
pond or perhaps a stone on a pond. That
sort of skipping motion bouncing
along. Well, the press got hold of the
term flying saucer from this and very
rapidly over 800 more flying saucer
reports came out with other people
claiming to see the same thing. But what
Ken uh had actually seen, well, he he
got an artist to draw for him the craft
that he claimed to have seen. And this
is a little insert of the artist drawing
and Ken himself approving that that was
a good representation of what he'd seen.
So it's not a flying saucer at all. It's
a sort of batwingshaped
uh craft of some
sort. And of course at the same
time the Air Force was testing the
Northrup
YB35 which is a flying wing. So very
similar in shape in many ways. Uh this
was again a top secret
aircraft. Nobody knew about it. And
perhaps uh copies of the German plans
for some of the Horton uh flying wing
concepts had led to this. We don't know.
The information's lost in the midst of
time. But maybe this was what he
actually saw. Well, that doesn't quite
account for that skipping
motion. Then we had the Roswell
incident, perhaps the most famous of the
whole lot. And in this one, Walter Hope,
a United States Army Air Force
spokesperson, issued a statement that
they had captured a flying saucer. Well,
this really set things going. But soon
afterwards, the army backtracked and
claimed that what had been found was a
crashed weather balloon. Was it really a
crashed weather balloon? Well, certainly
that strange thin material there looks
like something that might be covering a
a myar aluminiumized balloon. But was
that really what had crashed? We don't
know.
The case subsequently got more attention
and it's still talked about today
because the the uh recovery of the
material just did not seem to be handled
properly. The movie Hangar 18 is all
based on this idea that uh the American
government were hiding a alien
spacecraft away in a hanger probably at
Area 51. Um, and there are even talks of
people recovering alien bodies from
inside this craft or not. We just don't
know what to
believe. One of the explanations given
is though a secret project, not a
weather balloon, but project mobile. In
1994, the Air Force released previously
classified reports about this. This was
actually very high alitude balloons with
strings of microphones dangling beneath
them listening for the blast waves of
Soviet nuclear bomb tests. So perhaps
this really was a balloon, but it wasn't
a weather balloon at all. Um, hence the
very shifty behavior that was associated
with the whole
thing. And then there was 1976 and the
Tyran incident. I love this
one. There was a radar
detection. Radar operator reported an
object.
So they then looked outside in the
direction of where the radar indicated
and saw a bright shining object in the
sky. and two Iranian Air Force F4
Phantoms were scrambled to go and
investigate. The first reported the loss
of all of its
instrumentation fairly
quickly and then lost communication and
then returned back to base, leaving its
friend to continue. Now, the second
claimed to have achieved a radar lock at
a distance of 27 miles, but then its
coms and weapons failed as well. So, it
also returned to base. Um, and as it did
so, the comms came back
again. He he claimed a bright object
came out of the target at him as if it
had fired at him. Don't know what to
make of that, but there
was a US C141 cargo plane on a secret
overflight of Iran at the time. And this
was probably what caused the radar
detection and the radar lock at 27 milei
range.
And from an astronomical point of view,
at the time the planet Jupiter would
have been shining very very brightly in
the same direction. And so it's entirely
possible that the visual observation was
Jupiter. And in fact, the uh F4 Phantoms
went off and were chasing after a radar
image of this plane and the visual
sighting of Jupiter.
And what's often not reported about this
is that the Iranian F4s were not subject
to good maintenance. They'd both been up
the day before and the day before that
and both suffered instrumentation and
communication failures. So those were
not at all unusual for these aircraft.
They were breaking down all the time um
according to the reports. So the fact
that they broke down did not mean that
there was some influence of whatever it
was they were chasing.
Anyway, now the Rendlessham Forest
incident 1980, so fairly well up to date
and I remember
this. American Air Force personnel at
RAF Bentwaters
um and RAF Woodbridge got involved in
this event.
Someone first spotted lights in the sky
above Rendlessham
forest. An object was reported to have
fallen into the trees and based on that
jeeps were sent out with search teams to
go and try and locate whatever it was
that had come down. There were reports
of a triangular metal object being found
in the forest. There were reports of
multicolored lights moving through the
forest and even of higher levels of
radiation on the Geiger counters that
they took with
them. In the morning, there were reports
of a triangular imprint in the
ground and the press got hold of the
whole story. Colonel's top secret report
tells the facts. Mystery craft exploding
in a wall of color. Animals flee from
strange glowing object. And of course
the headline, UFO lands in
Suffuk. Well, what was really going on
with this one? Well, it was in fact uh I
think it was Christmas Eve and a lot of
people were not on duty. Probably having
a good time uh in the mess, maybe taking
a few beverages. uh when the first
report came and that was probably a
meteorite or a fireball coming down and
disappearing behind the
trees. Probably landed in the water way
out in the North Sea somewhere. But
these things can be very
deceptive. And then it being winter, the
forest was a bit thin. some of the
leaves off some of the
trees. And behind in a direct line of
sight from the control tower through the
forest is the Orford Les lighthouse
which rotates and sends a flashing beam.
And so searching in that direction, you
would see the flashing light through the
trees of the lighthouse rotating and of
course the trees moving in the wind. So
you'd see this flickering light. And
then of course once they dispatched
several jeeps with searches and torches,
they started seeing each other's
flashing lights as well and running
around rather in circles. So I'm afraid
that this was a case of just a lot of
people getting out there and chasing
each other around the forest. But of
course, there's a lovely monument there
of this triangular UFO craft placed on
the ground as a tourist attraction. Um,
and it looks just like the one that was
uh used in Hangar
18. So, I think we can put these all
down to
misidentification,
confusion, possibly fantasies, and maybe
a few hoaxes. Uh they're usually down to
balloons, flares, parachute flares that
fall behind things and disappear
suddenly or meteors or shooting stars.
Bright planets that people can go off
chasing. Sometimes atmospheric phenomena
called sprites and elves that are
associated with thunderstorms that are
over the horizon. Glowing spheres of
light called earth lights. uh can occur
if there have been earthquakes recently.
These seem to be associated with bull
lightning and they can be electrically
charged and repel each others. Um but
well it's very very hard to eliminate
all of them but that doesn't make them
true as unidentified flying objects in
the sense of aliens coming to visit us.
I think that is probably fantasy.
So, thanks very much for listening. And
I think the best way to detect aliens is
as in the backdrop here of listening out
for their radio signals, which we've
been doing for a very long time now. And
the puzzle is where is
everybody? Thanks for listening.